if you thought the situation with real
estate was wild you ain't seen nothing
yet you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you we need to look
at real estate and I'm going to show you
the most uneven the most unbelievable
circumstance with real estate it's going
on right here in 2024 I'm going to bring
you the charts I'm going to bring you
the data and the articles that you need
to know so that you can remain informed
but as always actually look in the
comment section for some fantastic
resources people are constantly giving
the information around where they live
they might just be anecdotal information
coming from the average person it might
be from real estate agents Brokers and
so on so I do appreciate those comments
where we can all learn from the
Grassroots property prices boomed here
during 20120 and now they're being
slashed as soaring numbers of homes sit
unsold we're talking about Florida
prices are stagnating and housing supply
has soared in some parts of the state
the state was flooded with newcomers
during 2020s home buy and boom Florida
has Built Homes but many locals have
been priced out of the market you've
seen this of course but understand
what's happening here is that yes there
have been a lot of people moving in a
lot of building that's been taking place
but at the same time you have to have
that growth within reason everything
will return turn to its you know natural
level which could be higher than where
it was before but when we get
exaggerated usually it has a whipsaw
kind of effect a beachball effect it
comes right back up all right um just
got to watch out okay out of town home
buyers no longer see Florida as a place
to get amazing value they're moving to
North Carolina Tennessee to get a good
deal many local blue collar workers have
been priced out of home ownership too
and so you're seeing this in in several
different parts by the way but just know
that you can't continue this forever
it's not possible um looking at it
overall though what has happened is that
the investment potential has suddenly
declined Florida happens to be one of
those places where we should always pay
attention to yes people live there they
work there more businesses moving there
but it's a vacation place so sometimes
people will say you know what I really
don't need to have this place I'm going
to sell it off it's my secondary home I
need cash I need liquidity I'm going to
sell that place so that's what happens
at the same time you got a lot of Airbnb
short-term rentals happening and um you
know one of the factors with Florida is
the insurance costs are extremely high
and that is becoming a burden for a lot
of people also HOA fees so if you have
what are also called strata fees what
are called condo fees you know people
are really dealing with this and you
could see it in this article as well
Florida's real estate seller slashing
home prices as inventory surges to
uncomfortable levels in the west coast
of Florida the number of houses up for
sale at and the rate at which the
current owners are cutting their asking
prices is soaring so you could see that
again same information HOA fees
Insurance fees they're they're talking
about that here but let's go north new
condo sales in the Toronto area hit low
not seen since the financial crisis so
this is becoming an issue for condal
being built up okay 50 stories here 50
stories there every single unit was hey
we're going to sell them all but now
suddenly people want out the mortgage
rates are insanely High
and they're now uh actually
underwater they are underwater in what
they can get even though rents are
absurd so this is happening all over the
place that's for condo sales single
family homes very different story and so
of course when you look out that's
residential but when you look out into
the commercial it's it's a problem that
we are now seeing the potential for some
of them to start to Pivot if it's a
residential you know what are you going
to do but if it's commercial you're a
mall you're an office building you've
got to quote unquote pivot or you're
going to be in big trouble California
malls are killing the food court for
something new and they give several
different examples of uh what you know
different spots are doing but I just
think it it's interesting to see that
hey look if they are willing to do this
if they are willing to make some changes
maybe they can survive otherwise nope
there's way too much retail there's way
too much office they better make some
changes fast and by the way if they're
not making changes well then you know uh
where to look all right for some
potential opportunities or maybe you
just want to stand clear the GTA that's
the greater Toronto area expected to
surpass Vancouver as Canada's most
expensive housing market in 20124 now
that's not in in terms of dollars but
when we look at it in comparison to what
people make it's the most expensive
place I mean it is absurd truly absurd
that's the greater Toronto area all
right congrats congrats to Toronto
office Market availability rate hits
record high in San Francisco you got a
problem of course they're not working
they're they're working from home
they're not working for the offices this
is the worst actually in San Francisco
of all places the work from home from
2020 just stay date on in some other
places they're like no no no you're
coming back to work in San Francisco
it's like okay apparently we don't need
any more offices what are they going to
do they better convert to Data Centers
if they can they better convert into
something else because they're make
trouble developers offering special
incentives to buyers as demand for new
Toronto condos continues to plummet
they're attracting trying to attract
them with hey we'll give you discounted
or free parking which by the way
parking spaces can go upwards of
$100,000 in some of these places
so looking at this you're just seeing
that they're struggling okay it's
everybody down the line the the tenant
is struggling the landlord like if it's
a small mom and pop landlord they're
struggling too you got the lender or the
developer the developer saying uh yeah
we're in trouble and then the lender is
holding on at this time some of them in
the United States if the regional banks
for instance they are dealing with some
problems uh but of course this goes just
one step at a time right then we have
this office loan defaults near historic
levels with billions on the line over
$38 billion of us Office Buildings face
loan defaults foreclosures or other
forms of distress that's the highest
amount since
2012 you see what's happening here very
very negative wouldn't you say but it's
not all negative look at this lvmh Louis
Vuitton right their new path to people's
hearts and pockets is through sprawling
real estate empires in New York Paris
and
Miami so there's a lot of money that's
still there no question about it but
it's only in a small group of people's
hands and the general masses are paying
more for everything else that they've
been used to they don't want to give up
going to the restaurants they don't want
to give up doing the things that they
love so they're spending more and
they're spending more and they might
have some equity in their home now lots
of equity and they're willing to spend
that up they're saying look I got to
live my life I got to keep up with the
Jones or Kardashians maybe yeah so
that's what's going on here and
certainly I'm just trying to highlight
that there's not like not everybody's
feeling it
evenly and this is apparently new energy
that are going through will raise the
cost of a new home by
$31,000 um new HUD HUD energy rules will
raise the cost of a home construction by
imposing stricter building codes payback
time is 90 years look what whether this
is accurate or not it's coming from you
know Mish
so I think that you know the
calculations that been done and it's
$31,000 that means more inflation that
that's all it's just more inflation
higher prices higher prices for you does
that affect somebody who's building a
you know a mega mansion no they they
don't care if it's 30,000 if it's
100,000 they don't care okay it affects
the average person who already cannot
afford a home this is showing us the
price of the homes have been going
up um now basically for a year so there
is reason in to look at this and say Hey
you know we were told about deflation
and I'm not seeing it this is the
one-year price change percentage by
metro area at the top of the list San
Diego all right San Diego is on the top
of the list and you're seeing other
names like Los Angeles like New York and
others all right so just understand
what's happening here it is not evenly
spread it's not evenly spread between
commercial real estate and residential
it's not evenly spread between the
halves and the have knots it's not
spread geographically
anywhere but we have to understand what
is Central to all of this to all of it
is the central banks their activities
have created this put this in place and
guess what it's all intentional what can
you do as an individual Ah that's right
you just get in your time machine go
back in time and then buy everything up
for cheap for pennies on the dollar what
seems like at today's prices right no
that would be nice but what we have to
to do is take action today that's all we
can do and we don't take action tomorrow
we take action today some of the things
that we can do of course is buying in
bulk I've talked about it countless
times you have to buy in bulk how do you
going to buy in bulk of course you can
go to the Costco and all that that's
that's okay um you can go to other
places there's some people go to windco
some people go to um I don't really see
Walmart as as a discount store in that
respect especially you know yes it's I
think now the
biggest
um the biggest grocery chain that exists
now Walmart um but the point is you want
to be able to go to the uh produce
Terminals and when you go to the produce
terminals in your area you might be
saying like what the heck is a produce
terminal just search produce terminal
and then the name of your city a lot of
them are open to the public not all of
them um but check it out produce
terminal as well as go to your local
farmers yes going to that farmer might
take an hour and a half
for you to get there but if you're
buying in bulk you're splitting with
family friends neighbors co-workers
that's something that you do you know
maybe once a month and you could be
getting a significant discount on it not
just you know $5 off coupon I'm not
talking about that you have to start
doing this and take these measures
there's way more that you can be doing I
talk about that on my Sunday business
live session like a whole different
world um if you're interested in that if
you want like just free stuff then check
my playlists my playlists are full of
free information but if you want more
information about the Sunday business
live where we talk about building an
online business so that we can be free
from all of this stuff potentially check
the link at the top of the description
and don't forget to hit that Thumbs Up
Button don't hit it once don't hit it
twice try Thrice I'll see you tomorrow
take care